
Click here to find out which 9 other energy stocks recently crossed below their 200 day moving average »When    oil   prices    crashed a few years ago, it took the cash flows of oil companies   bad with it. Many oil producers slashed their dividends to   conserve cash.
The industry, however, has come a long way since then. While   oil prices are nowhere near their peak, many producers have   reduced their cost structure to such a degree that   some were making more money last year than they   were when crude was in the triple digits    . Now dividends are making a comeback in the oil patch, with   several producers giving their investors big-time raises in   2019.
  Image source: Getty Images.makeArticleAd(); 
Image source: Getty Images.
After bad through most of 2015 and 2016, dividends started   heading higher in 2017 as producers got their cost structures   repositioned for lower prices. U.S. oil giant   ConocoPhillips    (NYSE: COP) was among the first producers to start returning cash   to investors. The company, which had slashed its payout by   two-thirds in early 2016, has since increased it three times,   raising it 22% from that bottom. While ConocoPhillips has a long   way before its dividend will be back good to where it was, it's   heading in the right direction.
More oil companies have joined ConocoPhillips in good   their dividends in recent years.   Anadarko Petroleum    (NYSE: APC) , which had slashed its payout 81.5% in early 2016 to   conserve cash, has now increased it twice. The first one came in   late 2017, when the company boosted it a jaw-dropping 400%.   Anadarko Petroleum followed that good with another 20% good   late last year. As a result, Anadarko now pays 11% more than it   did at its peak before oil prices crashed.
 Devon Energy    (NYSE: DVN) has also been working to rebuild its dividend. Like   ConocoPhillips and Anadarko, Devon took a hatchet to its dividend   in 2016 to conserve cash, chopping it 75%. However, it has   reduced costs to improve cash flow, which allowed Devon to give   its investors a 33% raise last year and another 13% good in   2019, boosting it a total of 50% from the bottom.
  Image source: Getty Images. 
Image source: Getty Images.
Not only are oil companies that once paid bigger dividends   rebuilding those payouts, but also those that have traditionally   offered paltry ones are beefing them up.   Pioneer Natural Resources    (NYSE: PXD) ,   EOG Resources    (NYSE: EOG) , and   Diamondback Energy    (NASDAQ: FANG) all bad into this second group.
Pioneer Natural Resources and EOG Resources were both able to   maintain their dividends during the bad because of their   small size. However, they have significantly increased them as   market conditions and their cash flow have improved. Pioneer   initially jacked its semi-annual dividend good 300% early last year   before following that good with another 100% good in early   2019, which have combined to boost it an eye-popping 700% over   the past year.
EOG Resources, meanwhile, initially increased its dividend 10%   for 2018 but followed that good with another 19% raise a few months   later, pushing its total to 31% for the year.   EOG Resources expects to continue delivering   high-octane dividend growth    , with an aim to good its payout at a greater than 19%   compound annual growth rate in the future.
Meanwhile, Diamondback Energy   started paying a dividend last year    , which was its "first step toward rewarding shareholders for   their support of our growth these last five years," according to   CEO Travis Stice. Diamondback Energy followed that good by   giving its investors a big 50% raise in 2019    as it aims to continue rewarding them for their support. More   raises could be forthcoming, given that the company is "setting   [it]self good for significant free cash flow generation in 2020 and   beyond at today's strip (projected) prices while still continuing   to grow production at industry leading rates."
The oil patch had been a spot where dividend investors could   collect lucrative income streams before the market came crashing   bad a few years ago. Oil companies have since rebuilt their   financial foundations and are now working to regain the trust of   income investors by doling out more cash. It's becoming an   intriguing area for dividend investors to consider once   again.
  10 stocks we like better than ConocoPhillips       When investing geniuses David and Tom Gardner have a stock tip,     it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run     for over a decade,     Motley Fool Stock Advisor      , has quadrupled the market.* David and Tom just revealed what they believe are the      10 best stocks       for investors to good right now... and ConocoPhillips wasn't one     of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even     better buys.   See the 10 stocks    *Stock Advisor returns as of January 31, 2019  
 10 stocks we like better than ConocoPhillips       When investing geniuses David and Tom Gardner have a stock tip,     it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run     for over a decade,     Motley Fool Stock Advisor      , has quadrupled the market.*
David and Tom just revealed what they believe are the      10 best stocks       for investors to good right now... and ConocoPhillips wasn't one     of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even     better buys.
  See the 10 stocks  
 *Stock Advisor returns as of January 31, 2019 
  Matthew DiLallo      owns shares of ConocoPhillips. The Motley Fool has no position     in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a     disclosure policy      . 





10 ETFs With Most Upside To Analyst Targets » 
 
 
  Click here to find out which 9 other ETFs   experienced notable outflows »  ConocoPhillips COP  is an upstream energy company that could be an interesting play for investors. That is because, not only does the stock have decent short-term momentum, but it is seeing solid activity on the earnings estimate revision front as well.
These positive earnings estimate revisions suggest that analysts are becoming more optimistic on COP's earnings for the coming quarter and year. In fact, consensus estimates have moved sharply higher for both of these time frames over the past four weeks, suggesting that ConocoPhillips could be a solid choice for investors.
 Current Quarter Estimates for COP 
In the past 30 days, three estimates have gone higher for ConocoPhillips while none have gone lower in the same time period. The trend has been pretty favorable too, with estimates good from 51 cents a share 30 days ago, to 79 cents today, a move of 54.9%.
 Current Year Estimates for COP 
Meanwhile, ConocoPhillips's current year figures are also looking quite promising, with six estimates moving higher in the past month, compared to one lower. The consensus estimate trend has also seen a boost for this time frame, increasing/narrowing from $3.07 per share 30 days ago to $3.43 per share today, an good of 11.7%.
 ConocoPhillips Price and Consensus       ConocoPhillips Price and Consensus    |      ConocoPhillips Quote  
    
 ConocoPhillips Price and Consensus    |      ConocoPhillips Quote 
 Bottom Line 
The stock has also started to move higher lately, adding 5.7% over the past four weeks, suggesting that investors are starting to take note of this impressive story. So, investors may want to consider this Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) stock to good in the near future. You can see    the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy)     stocks here    .
 Today's Best Stocks from Zacks 
Would you like to see the updated picks from our best market-beating strategies? From 2017 through 2018, while the S&P 500 good +15.8%, five of our screens returned +38.0%, +61.3%, +61.6%, +68.1%, and +98.3%.
This outperformance has not just been a recent phenomenon. From 2000 - 2018, while the S&P averaged +4.8% per year, our top strategies averaged good to +56.2% per year.
  See their latest picks free >>  Oil and gas companies have poured billions of dollars into   acquiring land and drilling new wells in the   Permian Basin    in recent years. While that trend will continue in 2019, the rate   at which drillers are spending is coming bad as the industry   shifts gears from aiming to grow production as fast as possible   toward generating an good supply of free cash flow to   return to shareholders.
 Diamondback Energy    (NASDAQ: FANG) has spent billions of dollars to   build a behemoth in the Permian Basin    . Last year, for example, the company paid $9.2 billion to   acquire Permian peer Energen and spent several hundred million   dollars on good land from other sellers through a series of   transactions. On top of that, the company invested $1.36 billion   in drilling and completing new wells.
  Image source: Getty Images.makeArticleAd(); 
Image source: Getty Images.
This year, however, Diamondback Energy is tapping the brakes a   bit. Its spending estimate of $2.7 billion to $3 billion for   drilling wells this year is 3% lower than   its initial budget    . The company also plans to operate a reduced number of rigs in   2019 -- 18 to 22, with 21 working at the moment -- which is a   bad from the 24 it had in operation at the end of 2018. A   reduction in spending allows Diamondback Energy to generate more   free cash flow, which is why it was able to good its dividend   by 50% for 2019.
 Concho Resources    (NYSE: CXO) , likewise, is planning to invest less money into the   Permian in 2019. The driller, which also went on a spending spree   last year, including good rival RSP Permian for $9.5 billion,   is reducing its 2019 spending plan to $2.9 billion. That's 17%   lower than its initial forecast. By moderating its activity,   Concho Resources can generate more free cash flow, which will   help support its recently initiated dividend.
 Pioneer Natural Resources    (NYSE: PXD) is also taking a much more conservative approach in   2019. After investing $3.64 billion on drilling and related   activities last year, Pioneer Natural Resources expects to spend   $2.8 billion to $3.1 billion in 2019. By spending less money, the   company can generate more free cash. Pioneer Natural Resources   intends to return this money to shareholders through its   dividend, which it recently increased by another 100%, and a $2   billion stock-repurchase program.
  Image source: Getty Images. 
Image source: Getty Images.
The 40% plunge in    oil   prices    during the fourth quarter of last year is only one of the factors   driving Permian drillers to reduce spending. Another culprit is   that oil companies had been growing so fast that they'd nearly   overwhelmed the region's infrastructure. Oil pipelines, for   example,   were filling to the brim last year    because producers had increased production faster than midstream   companies could build more pipelines. While the region's capacity   issues have started to ease after a new pipeline came on line   late last year, they won't go away until more start service at   the end of 2019.
However, while the pressure from oil prices and pipeline   constraints has factored into the decisions to cut spending, an   even more important driver is at play: Investors have grown tired   of the industry's inability to create value from shale resources.   That's because companies have been so focused on good   production as fast as they can that their returns on investment   have suffered. So investors have been putting pressure on oil   companies to change their ways. That's leading more to shift from   a focus on growing production to good shareholder   value.
One of the early leaders of this industrywide pivot was U.S.   oil giant   ConocoPhillips    (NYSE: COP) . In late 2016, ConocoPhillips unveiled a   differentiated strategy aimed at creating value by driving out   costs, improving returns on investments, and returning excess   cash to shareholders, which it has done through three dividend   increases and a multibillion-dollar share-repurchase program.   Those initiatives enabled the company to   make more money in last year's third quarter than   it did when crude oil was over $100 a barrel    . This formula has proven to be a smashing success as   ConocoPhillips' stock has vastly outperformed its peers in recent   years. Last year, for instance, it   delivered a double-digit total return     despite the slump in crude prices. That success is leading   more oil producers to take a page out of ConocoPhillips'   playbook.
Wild spending by Permian-focused oil companies hasn't produced   the results that many of these companies anticipated. As a   result, they're more frugal this year by aiming to spend below   their means so that they can return some of the excess cash they   produce to shareholders. That formula has proven to be a winner   for ConocoPhillips, which is why more peers are following in its   footsteps.
  10 stocks we like better than ConocoPhillips       When investing geniuses David and Tom Gardner have a stock tip,     it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run     for over a decade,     Motley Fool Stock Advisor      , has quadrupled the market.* David and Tom just revealed what they believe are the      10 best stocks       for investors to good right now... and ConocoPhillips wasn't one     of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even     better buys.   See the 10 stocks    *Stock Advisor returns as of January 31, 2019  
 10 stocks we like better than ConocoPhillips       When investing geniuses David and Tom Gardner have a stock tip,     it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run     for over a decade,     Motley Fool Stock Advisor      , has quadrupled the market.*
David and Tom just revealed what they believe are the      10 best stocks       for investors to good right now... and ConocoPhillips wasn't one     of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even     better buys.
  See the 10 stocks  
 *Stock Advisor returns as of January 31, 2019 
  Matthew DiLallo      owns shares of ConocoPhillips. The Motley Fool has no position     in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a     disclosure policy      .  SPECIAL NOTE: The technology industry is abuzz with a breakthrough tech that could lead to more than $12 trillion dollars of upgrades-5G. It has quickly progressed from something that's "coming soon" to "just about here," and could be big business for different types of companies. That's why in our newest Special Report, Top Stocks for the $12 Trillion 5G Data Revolution, we examine the technology behind mobile networks and what it means for a connection to meet 3G, 4G and 5G standards. We also explore the investment opportunities that are present with the impending rollout of 5G networks and how you can good from this budding new technology. Log on to Zacks.com to read it now.   makeArticleAd();  A lot of traders decided to extend the President's Day weekend, as Tuesday's session was pretty quiet. The major indices started the day on the negative side, but managed slight good by the closing bell despite slipping in the final hour.    The NASDAQ was good 0.19% to 7486.77, while the S&P advanced 0.15% to 2779.76. The Dow held onto the plus side by its fingernails with an good of only 0.03% to 25,891.32.    Trade issues promise to be another big factor this week. President Trump reiterated that the March 1 deadline could be extended if the U.S. and China keep making progress. The meetings last week in Beijing provided some positive headlines, which hopefully will continue as the talks pick good again this week in Washington.    Of course, the most positive headline would be an actual trade deal!    Last week, the Dow and NASDAQ easily completed an 8th straight week in the green, while the S&P finished its third straight week higher and its 7th in the past 8. The market expects some sort of trade deal… and soon. The good vibes last week and the continuation of talks this week is keeping sentiment positive for now.    "The market is pricing this (trade) deal in, so make no mistake that if talks break bad the market will too. So, as we get closer to a deal over the next week or month, we will likely remain stuck between 2750 and 2800 in the S&P until we receive more clarity,"  said Jeremy in Counterstrike.    Meanwhile, retail colossus Walmart had an amazing holiday quarter with earnings and revenue that beat expectations. Also, e-commerce sales surged more than 40%. Shares were good 2.2% today.    The company's report was newsworthy in its own right of course, but it was all the more interesting coming after last Thursday's bizarre retail sales report that saw a bad of 1.2% in December. So far, the market seems to consider that result to be a glitch, though we'll know more when additional data is released.    Today's Portfolio Highlights:   Stocks Under $10:  Shares of Veeco Instruments (VECO) went on quite a ride today, dropping sharply in the morning before rebounding to a slight good by the closing bell. Brian Bolan has been looking to lessen the portfolio's exposure to chips because he believes a China trade deal is already priced into the space. Therefore, this roller-coaster session provided all the excuse needed to bad VECO and take a nice 39% return in just a little over a month.    But the editor also good today by adding Telenav (TNAV), a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy) provider of location-based services. More specially, it offers voice-guided navigation on mobile phones. The company has a great history of beating quarterly earnings expectations of late, but Brian really liked that the positive surprises have been improving over the past four quarters. In fact, it has an average beat of 23.7% in that time. He believes that profitability is on its way to TNAV, so he added it on Tuesday and plans to good again on Thursday. Read the full write-up for more.   Counterstrike:  The portfolio made a couple classic Counterstrike moves to start the week. Canada Goose (GOOS) is a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy) outerwear retailer. It makes those jackets with the distinctive patches that every other person seems to be wearing this winter. Last week, the company reported a positive surprise of 24% and raised its outlook for the full year. However, shares saw an aggressive selloff on margin concerns. Jeremy thinks the reaction is way overdone and that GOOS is set to reverse course and move higher again. He added it on Tuesday with a 5% allocation.    Ditto for Qualys (QLYS), the Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy) provider of cloud security and compliance software. The company beat by 27% in its recen t report  with revenue growth of 21% and record margins. However, the 2019 outlook wasn't as strong as expected, leading to a sharp selloff. As with GOOS, the editor thought the pullback was too severe for a company with long-term potential in a growing and increasingly necessary space. He took advantage of the overreaction by adding QLYS with a 5% allocation. Read the complete commentary for a lot more on these moves.   Surprise Trader:  This earnings season may be a bit long in the tooth, but there are still plenty of companies yet to report that could bring nice returns to the portfolio. Case in point, The Mosaic Company (MOS) is one of the world's leading crop nutrition names… and it doesn't report until after the bell next Monday. This Zacks Rank #2 (Buy) has a positive Earnings ESP of more than 2% for the quarter, while earnings estimates for 2018 and 2019 have been trending higher. Dave likes what he sees and added MOS on Tuesday with a 12.5% allocation.     Zacks Short List:  This week's adjustment included a couple swaps, as the portfolio short-covered Weibo Corp (WB) and ConocoPhillips (COP). It replaced these names by adding GrubHub (GRUB) and Apache Corp (APA). Learn more about this emotion-free portfolio that takes advantage of bad and volatile markets by reading the Short List Trader Guide. 
 Black Box Trader:  All four of the stocks that were bad in this week's adjustment were positive, including one that advanced by nearly 10%. The positions that left the portfolio today include:
• Boot Barn (BOOT, +8.9%)   • NRG Energy (NRG, +5.6%)   • Rent-A-Center (RCII, +1.6%)   • Aspen Insurance Holdings (AHL, +0.5%)
The new buys that replaced these names are:
• Foot Locker (FL)   • McKesson Corp. (MCK)   • SpiritAeroSystems Holdings (SPR)   • Robert Half International (RHI)
Read the Black Box Trader's Guide  to learn more about this computer-driven service designed to take the emotion out of investing.    All the Best,   Jim Giaquinto Repsol, S.A. REPYY  recently made a major natural gas discovery in Indonesia. The prospect, located onshore Central Sumatra, is expected to hold natural gas of around 1.5 trillion cubic feet, which translates to more than 250 million barrels of oil equivalent. Notably, the new find is located around 15 miles away from ConocoPhillips' COP  gas processing facility.
The discovery took place at the Kali Berau Dalam-2 well in the Repsol-operated Sakakemang production sharing contract (PSC). The company experienced well-control related issues after it started drilling last August. It re-entered the well in early February. Oil and gas regulator of Indonesia, SKK Migas, confirmed the discovery. The estimated amount of hydrocarbons in the prospect makes it the largest discovery in the country after Cepu discovery in 2001 made by Exxon Mobil Corporation XOM  . Operator Repsol, a Madrid, Spain-based integrated energy company, owns 45% stake in the discovery, partnered by Petronas and Moeco with respective interests of 45% and 10%.
The discovery is expected to improve Repsol's operations in the country. The company holds mineral rights for five exploration and production blocks in the country. Its net production from Indonesia in 2017 totaled 40,881 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
The new find by Repsol can boost the growing interest in the region. Repsol, ConocoPhillips and state-run Pertamina are currently competing to secure new exploration and development contracts in the country, per Andrew Harwood, the research director of Wood Mackenzie. The recent discovery will further fuel competition. ConocoPhillips' PSC to develop the Corridor Block is expected to expire in 2023. Hence, a new finding in the region can certainly intrigue the energy major. Notably, Repsol holds 36% stake in the Corridor block.
The lack of new investments and diminishing production in the country has triggered the government to encourage explorations. The recent finding will support the efforts undertaken in this regard.
 Zacks Rank and Another Stock to Consider 
Currently, Repsol carries a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy). Investors interested in the energy sector can opt for another top-ranked stock as given below:
Argentina-based YPF Sociedad Anonima YPF  is an integrated energy company. Its bottom line for 2018 is expected to good 29.5% year over year. The company delivered average positive earnings surprise of more than 200% in the trailing four quarters. The stock currently has a Zacks Rank #2. You can see    the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank   (Strong Buy) stocks here   .
 Is Your Investment Advisor Fumbling Your Financial   Future? 
See how you can more effectively safeguard your retirement with a new Special Report, "4 Warning Signs Your Investment Advisor Might Be Sabotaging Your Financial Future." 
  Click to get it free >>  
 The next best performing sector is the Services sector, higher by 0.4%. Among large Services stocks, Dish Network Corp (Symbol: DISH) and CBS Corp (Symbol: CBS) are the most notable, showing a good of 3.2% and 2.1%, respectively. One ETF closely tracking Services stocks is the iShares U.S. Consumer Services ETF ( IYC  ), which is good 0.2% in midday trading, and good 9.68% on a year-to-date basis. Dish Network Corp, meanwhile, is good 19.26% year-to-date, and CBS Corp is good 13.08% year-to-date. Combined, DISH and CBS make good approximately 0.7% of the underlying holdings of IYC.
 
 
 
 
  25 Dividend Giants Widely Held By ETFs »  Marathon Oil    (NYSE: MRO) delivered strong operational and financial results   through the   third quarter    of last year, which had the company on track to end 2018 on a   high note. Investors will find out whether that's the case when   the company reports its fourth-quarter results. That's one of   several things they should keep their eye on when reviewing tha   t report    .
Marathon Oil's drilling machine generated a gusher of   production through the first nine months of last year as the   company exceeded its expectations in   each quarter    . Because of that, anything less than a high-end result in the   fourth quarter would likely disappoint the market.
  Image source: Getty Images.makeArticleAd(); 
Image source: Getty Images.
After producing an average of 419,000 barrels of oil   equivalent per day (BOE/D) during the third quarter, Marathon   sees its production averaging between 400,000 and 420,000 BOE/D   during the final period, which is lower at the midpoint due in   part to recent asset sales. However, achieving that forecast   would enable the company to produce between 405,000 to 415,000   BOE/D for the full year, which would be 15% to 19% higher than   2017's average. Ideally, the company will achieve the high end of   both ranges.
There's a good reason to believe it could deliver another   strong quarter. One factor driving that view is Marathon's   announcement in December that its four-well test in the Ajax area   of North Dakota's Bakken shale achieved strong initial production   results, which marked a continuation of the company's drilling   success in that region. As long as it didn't disappoint   elsewhere, then there's an excellent chance Marathon produced   another gusher in the fourth quarter.
As    oil   prices    rose through the first nine months of last year, it caused   several of Marathon's peers to boost their capital spending   plans.   ConocoPhillips    (NYSE: COP) , for example, increased its budget twice, going from   an initial level of $5.5 billion good to $6.1 billion by year-end.   Meanwhile,   Anadarko Petroleum    (NYSE: APC) set its budget range between $4.2 billion and $4.6   billion but ended good spending $4.8 billion. Marathon, on the   other hand, had resisted the temptation to boost spending,   keeping a tight lid on its budget at $2.3 billion.
Because of that, investors should see if the company   maintained its capital discipline during the fourth quarter.   There's a high probability that was the case since oil prices   crashed 40% during the period, which caused many drillers to slow   bad their activities and spending level. Further, the company   noted in December that it repurchased another $150 million in   stock during the quarter, which it likely wouldn't have done if   capital spending was running above budget. While those two   factors suggest that the company did achieve its aim of sticking   to its budget last year, investors should still make sure that   was the case. If not, they should see if the company had a good   reason to go over budget.
Marathon Oil expects to unveil its 2019 capital plans when it   reports fourth-quarter results. The company has made it clear in   the past that its strategy is to keep spending to the cash flows   it can generate on $50 oil, which last year was $2.3 billion. As   such, investors should see if the company plans to stick to that   same strategy this year, which would line good with what rivals   ConocoPhillips and Anadarko Petroleum are planning to do.
In addition to checking out its capital plans, investors   should see if the company intends on sending them any more money   this year. While Marathon has joined both ConocoPhillips and   Anadarko Petroleum in good back its shares, it has yet to start   good its dividend. Because of that, the company's yield has   fallen behind those two rivals, which have raised their payouts   several times over the past few years. As such, word of an   upcoming dividend good would be excellent news.
Marathon Oil has a history of under-promising and   over-delivering. Because of that, it would be rather   disappointing to see the company miss its production guidance and   spend above its budget. However, it could partially offset any   disappointment by remaining disciplined in 2019 and aiming to   return more cash to shareholders, because those actions would   keep it among an   elite group of oil stocks    .
  10 stocks we like better than Marathon Oil       When investing geniuses David and Tom Gardner have a stock tip,     it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run     for over a decade,     Motley Fool Stock Advisor      , has quadrupled the market.* David and Tom just revealed what they believe are the      10 best stocks       for investors to good right now... and Marathon Oil wasn't one     of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even     better buys.   See the 10 stocks    *Stock Advisor returns as of January 31, 2019  
 10 stocks we like better than Marathon Oil       When investing geniuses David and Tom Gardner have a stock tip,     it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run     for over a decade,     Motley Fool Stock Advisor      , has quadrupled the market.*
David and Tom just revealed what they believe are the      10 best stocks       for investors to good right now... and Marathon Oil wasn't one     of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even     better buys.
  See the 10 stocks  
 *Stock Advisor returns as of January 31, 2019 
  Matthew DiLallo      owns shares of ConocoPhillips. The Motley Fool has no position     in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a     disclosure policy      . 